It is now time to start writing our first JAXB programs.
We will start with marshalling.
Take a look at the example named ps-jaxb-02-marshalling.
In the package com.
jesperdj.
jaxb.
domain, there are a few classes that represent our domain model.
These are just simple Java classes with some fields and getters and setters.
The PurchaseOrder class represents a purchase order,
which contains a list of items and information about the customer.
Let's take a look at class MarshallingExample1,
which shows you how you can convert a purchaseOrder object into XML using JAXB.
First, we need a purchaseOrder object with some information in it.
There is a createPurchaseOrder method,
which creates an example purchaseOrder object.
We will not look at that method in detail.
Let's focus on how to use JAXB.
The first thing we need to do is create a JAXBContext.
The newInstanceFactory method needs to know the domain model classes,
so we pass it PurchaseOrder.
class.
JAXB will analyze this class and the other domain model
classes that are referenced by class PurchaseOrder in
order to create the JAXBContext.
The next step is to create a marshaller by calling the
createMarshaller method on the context.
Class Marshaller has a setProperty method,
which you can use to set options which modify the behavior of the marshaller.
One of the standard options you can set is whether you want the XML formatted.
By default, this is turned off,
which means that there won't be any unnecessary spaces or
line breaks between the XML elements.
To make the output easier to read, let's set this property to true.
To marshal the purchaseOrder object,
we'll first need to create a JAXBElement object,
which holds the purchaseOrder object and a QName object,
which specifies the name of the XML element.
A QName is a qualified name, which is a combination of a namespace and a name.
To keep it simple, we are not specifying a namespace in this example,
so the first argument to the constructor of the QName object is null.
The last line does the actual marshalling.
We need to pass two things to the marshal method,
the object to marshal and where the output should go.
The object to marshal is the JAXBElement,
and the output goes directly to System.
out, which is the console.
Let's run this little program.
The output is printed in the console window of my IDE.
As you can see, the XML contains the purchase order information.
Take a look at class PurchaseOrder and the other domain
model classes and compare them to the XML.
For each field, there is a corresponding XML element.
If you look closely,
then you might notice a few things that are not as you would want or expect.
For example, the customer element is first in the XML before the items,
even though in class PurchaseOrder, the items field is before the customer field.
Also for each item, there is an items element,
which doesn't sound logical since each of these
elements is really a single item.
In the next module,
you're going to learn how to use the JAXB annotations to fix these problems.
Let's go back to the Marshal method.
There's actually not just one Marshal method.
Class Marshaller contains a number of different overloaded
versions for different kinds of outputs.
What's interesting is that there are not just versions to
write to an output string or a file,
but also versions that integrate with the other Java XML APIs.
So there are, for example,
versions of the Marshal method that takes a SAX ContentHandler,
a DOM Node, or a StAX XMLStreamWriter or XMLEventWriter.
Let's take a closer look at how this works.
Take a look at class MarshallingExample2.
This example shows you how you can use JAXB to
marshal an object into a StAX stream.
Let's start at line 40 in this example.
Here we are using the StAX API to create an XML document.
Suppose that at some point we want to write a
purchase order into the XML stream.
To do that, we can simply pass the XMLStreamWriter object to the marshaller.
Note that there's one property we have to set on the marshaller here.
We have to set the property JAXB_FRAGMENT to true so that the marshaller
doesn't output a complete document including an XML header,
but just the purchaseOrder element.
Why would you want to do something like this where you mix StAX and JAXB?
As an example,
think of a program that needs to make a database dump into an XML file.
There could be millions of records in the database.
If you would use only JAXB,
what you would probably do is read all the records and put them
into a list and then marshal that list using JAXB,
but this would get you into trouble because your program would need a huge
amount of memory to hold that list with millions of objects.
A better way to do it would be to use StAX to write the XML and
then fetch the database records in batches of,
for example, 100 records each.
You would then marshal the 100 objects in each batch where you would marshal them into the StAX stream.